翻译动画系统 (#1722)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/animation/animation-editor.md

# Get Familiar with the Animation Editor

> The **Animation** panel panel is used to edit and preview the animation clip of the currently selected node. When editing animation data or related properties, it will take effect immediately after mouse focus leaves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Animation** panel is used to edit and preview the animation clip of the currently selected node. When editing animation data or related properties, it will take effect immediately after mouse focus leaves.
```

> The **Animation** panel is already included in the default layout of Cocos Creator, or you can open the **Animation** panel by clicking **Panel -> Animation -> Animation Editor** in the main menu above the editor.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Animation** panel is already included in the default layout of Cocos Creator, or open the **Animation** panel by clicking **Panel -> Animation -> Animation Editor** in the main menu above the editor.
```

4. **Property List**: used to display/set all animation properties included in the currently edited animation clip for the currently selected node.
5. **Property Keyframe Preview**: used to display/set all keyframes on each animation property of the currently selected node.
6. **Related properties of the current animation clip**: used to set the playback mode, playback speed, etc. of the current animation clip.

For specific content, please refer to the following introduction.

### 1. Menu Toolbar

The function buttons in the **Menu toolbar** are, from left to right.

| Icon | Description | Shortcut |
| :---- | :--- | :--- |
| ![menu clips](animation-editor/menu_clips.png) | Toggle animation clips. When multiple animation clips are attached on the animation component, this button can be used to toggle between clips. | - |
| ![jump to first frame](animation-editor/menu_first.png) | Moves the red time control line to the beginning of the current animation clip | <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>←</kbd> |
| ![jump to previous frame](animation-editor/menu_prev.png) | Move time control line to previous frame | <kbd>←</kbd> |

> | ![play/pause](animation-editor/menu_play.png) | play/pause current animation | <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![play/pause](animation-editor/menu_play.png) | Play/pause current animation | <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> |
```

- Using the relevant move control buttons in the menu toolbar
- Use shortcut keys, which can be found in the **Shortcuts** section below
- Click anywhere in the upper area of the animation timeline

  ![about the timeline](animation-editor/above-timeline.png)

If the time control line is moved, the nodes in the **Scene** panel will also move accordingly to the animation track.

![move line](animation-editor/move-line.gif)

#### Scale unit display of the timeline

The ![time](animation-editor/menu_time.png) button in the **Toolbar** can be used to toggle the way the scale unit of the timeline is displayed. The value in the input box will change with the movement of the time control line. Manual input is supported, and the time control line will be automatically positioned to the corresponding position after the input is finished.

The following three display methods are currently supported:

- **Time: 0-00** (default): the animation timeline scale is displayed as a combination of seconds and frames. The value in front of the input box means **seconds**, and the value after it means **frames**, for example `01-05` means 1 second and 5 frames.

  ![time](animation-editor/time.png)

> - **frames: 0**: display the scale of the animation timeline in terms of frames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Frames: 0**: display the scale of the animation timeline in terms of frames.
```

  ![frame](animation-editor/frame.png)

> - **time(s): 0 s**: display the scale of the animation timeline in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Time(s): 0 s**: display the scale of the animation timeline in seconds.
```

  ![times](animation-editor/times.png)

> The frame rate (Sample) is generally used to indicate how many frames a second is to be divided into, which can be adjusted in the **Sample** option at the bottom of the **Animation** panel. This is affected to a different extent when the scale unit of the timeline is displayed in different ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The framerate (Sample) is generally used to indicate how many frames a second is to be divided into, which can be adjusted in the **Sample** option at the bottom of the **Animation** panel. This is affected to a different extent when the scale unit of the timeline is displayed in different ways.
```

Author: frame rate是分开写的，合起来写是不规范的

Reviewer: 是可以合起来写的，参考这篇：https://docs.unity3d.com/2020.3/Documentation/Manual/TimeFrameManagement.html

> When the scale unit is set to **Frames**, it is in frames and is not affected by the frame rate. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the scale unit is set to **Frame**, it is in frames and is not affected by the framerate. <br>
```

> When the scale unit is set to **Frames**, it is in frames and is not affected by the frame rate. <br>

Author: ```suggestion
When the scale unit is set to **Frame**, it is in frames and is not affected by the frame rate. <br>
```

> When set to **Time** or **Time(s)**, the same scale represents a different point in time as the frame rate changes, and the conversion between the two is calculated as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to **Time** or **Time(s)**, the same scale represents a different point in time as the framerate changes, and the conversion between the two is calculated as follows:
```

> | Frame Rate (Sample) | Time: 00-00 | Time (s): 0 s |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Framerate (Sample) | Time: 00-00 | Time (s): 0 s |
```

When clicking on a keyframe, it will turn from blue to white and information about it will be displayed above the area, and double-clicking on the keyframe will move the time control line to its location.

![key info](animation-editor/key-info.png)

### 6. Related properties of the current animation clip

The properties of the current animation clip that can be set directly on the **Animation** panel include: **WrapMode**, **Sample**, **Speed** and **Duration**. For details, please refer to [Animation Clip Properties Settings](edit-animation-clip.md#animation-clip-properties-settings).

## Adjusting the Layout of the Animation Panel

The dividers between the node list and the timeline, and between the property list and the timeline are available for dragging and dropping to change the layout. By dragging and dropping you can freely adjust the **Animation** panel to a layout effect suitable for editing.

![layout](./animation-editor/layout.gif)

## Shortcut keys

Click on the menu toolbar's ![shortcuts](./animation-editor/shortcuts.png) button in the menu toolbar to open the shortcuts panel:

![shortcuts manager](./animation-editor/shortcuts-manager.png)

> Supports customizing the shortcuts of **animation-editor**. Directly click the shortcut key combination of the function you want to modify, a prompt will appear as shown below, you can directly modify the shortcut keys.

Author: ```suggestion
Shortcuts can be customized in the **Animation** panel. Directly click the shortcut key combination of the function to be modified. A prompt will appear as shown below.
```

![shortcuts change](./animation-editor/shortcuts-change.png)

### Default shortcut key summary

Function | Shortcut | Description
:--- | :----- | :---
Enter/exit **Animation** panel | <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>E</kbd> | -
Save animation data | <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> | -

> Move forward one frame | <kbd>←</kbd> | Ignore current operation if already at frame 0. Move the time control line when the keyframe is not selected; move the keyframe when the keyframe is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move forward one frame | <kbd>←</kbd> | Ignore current operation if already at frame 0. Move the time control line when the keyframe is not selected, move the keyframe when the keyframe is selected.
```

> Move back one frame | <kbd>→</kbd> | Move the time control line when the keyframe is not selected; move the keyframe when the keyframe is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move back one frame | <kbd>→</kbd> | Move the time control line when the keyframe is not selected, move the keyframe when the keyframe is selected.
```

# Get Familiar with the Animation Editor

The **Animation** panel panel is used to edit and preview the animation clip of the currently selected node. When editing animation data or related properties, it will take effect immediately after mouse focus leaves.

The **Animation** panel is already included in the default layout of Cocos Creator, or you can open the **Animation** panel by clicking **Panel -> Animation -> Animation Editor** in the main menu above the editor.

## Panel Introduction

> The **Animation** panel panel can be divided into the following main sections.

Reviewer: 这里多了一个 panel
